Update roadmap (#3116)
kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure: docs/book/src/roadmap.md

# Cluster API Azure Roadmap

The best place to see what's coming is in [the public milestones](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure/milestones).  
The next numbered milestone (i.e. **1.8**) is planned at the very begining of the 2 month release cycle and most actively planned and discussed on the community call after the major release.
Active community PR contributions are prioritized throughout the release and unplanned work may arise, hence the items in the milestone are a rough estimate which may change.
The "next" milestone is where items for the milestone after the current numbered one are placed to help with a very rough bucket to help prioritize upcoming work.

## High Level Vision

> CAPZ is the core production-ready code to deploy self-managed or managed kubernetes clusters on Azure at scale by combining with GitOps concepts and surrounding tooling ecosystem.

Reviewer: I would emphasize managing lifecycle of clusters over deploy, and that CAPZ is the official Azure Cluster API provider

# Cluster API Azure Roadmap

The best place to see what's coming is in [the public milestones](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure/milestones).  

> The next numbered milestone (i.e. **1.8**) is planned at the very beginning of the 2 month release cycle and most actively planned and discussed on the community call after the major release.

Reviewer 2: nit: if we're using 1.8 as an example, then we should prefer the Latin abbreviation "e.g." (exempli gratia). "i.e." usually indicates "in other words..." (id est, literally it/that is, but I digress).

Ref: https://www.merriam-webster.com/words-at-play/ie-vs-eg-abbreviation-meaning-usage-difference

By the way I added this feedback because @mboersma was going to anyways (I win this time, Matt!)

> The next numbered milestone (e.g. **1.8**) is planned at the very beginning of the 2 month release cycle and most actively planned and discussed on the community call after the major release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The next numbered milestone (e.g. **1.8**) is planned at the very beginning of the 2-month release cycle. This planning and discussion begins at [Cluster API Azure Office Hours](http://bit.ly/k8s-capz-agenda) after a major release.
```

> Active community PR contributions are prioritized throughout the release and unplanned work may arise, hence the items in the milestone are a rough estimate which may change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Active community PR contributions are prioritized throughout the release, but unplanned work will arise. Hence the items in the milestone are a rough estimate which may change.
```

The "next" milestone is where items for the milestone after the current numbered one are placed to help with a very rough bucket to help prioritize upcoming work.

## High Level Vision

> CAPZ is the official production-ready Cluster API implementation to administer the entire lifecycle of self-managed or managed Kubernetes clusters (AKS) on Azure.  CAPZ enables kubernetes cluster lifecycle administration at large scale while working with GitOps and the surrounding tooling ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: I like this first sentence!

I think I'd prefer something like this for the 2nd sentence:

"Cluster API defines a standard API, and provides a common toolkit, for building and maintaining Kubernetes clusters at scale in any environment."

Author: The 2nd sentence sounds very clean!  The concerns I have with it:
1. Cluster API and its "common toolkit" doesn't really enable scale by itself
2. "Any environment" might be a little too bold of a statement

Author: See what you think of the updated 2nd sentence now.

> CAPZ is the official production-ready Cluster API implementation to administer the entire lifecycle of self-managed or managed Kubernetes clusters (AKS) on Azure.   Cluster API provides a standard API and tooling consistent across on-premises and cloud providers to build and maintain Kubernetes clusters at large scale while working with GitOps and the surrounding tooling ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CAPZ is the official production-ready Cluster API implementation to administer the entire lifecycle of self-managed or managed Kubernetes clusters (AKS) on Azure. Cluster API extends the Kubernetes API to provide tooling consistent across on-premises and cloud providers to build and maintain Kubernetes clusters at scale while working with GitOps and the surrounding tooling ecosystem.
```

Reviewer 2: Cecile wins this battle of English language density (but clear!)...

## Epics

There are a number of large priority "Epics" which may span across milestones which we believe are important to providing CAPZ users an even better experience and improving the vision.  

> -  Latest Core Dependencies - The foundation should keep everything under a supported version of dependencies as well as to enable the latest features. 

Reviewer 2: Is the idea to keep this list a manually curated list of known release-spanning objectives? If so, should we add a note to the release documentation to audit and update this content every time we cut a minor release?

cc @CecileRobertMichon

Author: I don't think it should be all-inclusive of objectives spanning release milestones.  I do think it should update when one or more of this criteria happens:
1. An Epic listed has sufficiently been achieved
2. A new Epic we want to highlight surfaces
3. No updates have occurred in the past 6 months

Reviewer: IMO we should have some process to regularly update the milestone that's independent of the release cycle (or maybe every few releases?). It's a good idea to embed it into some other existing process (eg. release) though as it helps ensure we don't forget about it and let it get stale as we have.

Reviewer 2: Agree, we should state that updating this doc as part of the release cycle is conditional and that it is normal for this high level set of objectives to remain static over a few release cycles sometimes.

I wish there were a part of the release documentation where we say "these are the things you do a week before you plan to cut a release" so that we can have ample time to do these more manual, holistic tasks in advance of the actual release.

Reviewer: > I wish there were a part of the release documentation where we say "these are the things you do a week before you plan to cut a release" so that we can have ample time to do these more manual, holistic tasks in advance of the actual release.

like this https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api/issues/new?assignees=&labels=&template=release_tracking.md&title=Tasks+for+v%3Crelease-tag%3E+release+cycle? We could add one...

Author: What if we just say every even or odd release number we put a note to check/update the roadmap doc?

Reviewer: that seems a bit arbitrary... Maybe every release we check it but we don't always update it

Author: Ok, sure.

Reviewer: @dtzar want to add that step to https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/cluster-api-provider-azure/blob/main/docs/book/src/developers/releasing.md?
